>> Kyle Simpson: There are values that
we wanna call out, they have special
behaviors, and one that I specifically
want to focus on is the NaN value.
This is probably one of the most
misunderstood of all the values
in the JavaScript language.
So let's just take a moment to
make sure we understand NaN.
If I say var greeting
= "Hello class!"; and
then I do something with that there
value string that doesn't make sense for
a string, like I try to divide it by
two like we are here in line three.
JavaScript is gonna throw up its hands and
say, what are you trying to do?
You can't take a string and divide it
by two, that doesn't make any sense.
That's not a mathematic operation.
I can't make Hello, class into
a number and then divide it by two,
so what am I gonna get?
Well, I'm actually get a special
kind of value called the NaN value.
So something here is
gonna have the NaN value.
And it's gonna have it specifically
because the divide operator
on line three tried to
turn the value Hello,
class, that string, into a number and
that's not a valid number.
[LAUGH] So
we end up this invalid number called NaN.
Now a lot of people think NaN means is
not a number, but it's not quite that.
And I wanna call this out because we
have a utility called Number.isNaN
which would tell us, yes,
you do in fact have a NaN.
But let me ask you a question,
is greeting a number?
Well, clearly greeting is not a number,
clearly it's a string.
So you'd say, no, it's not a number.
And it's definitely not a number, but
is it the not a number special NaN value?
And the answer is no, it's not.
If we say, Number.isNaN for
greeting, we get false.
So NaN is a special value that sort of
indicates that we've had an invalid
numeric operation of some sort.
And you should be aware that you
should be testing for those.
Any place that you do
math in your programs,
you need to be aware that NaNs can happen.
And once you get a NaN,
it's gonna mess up all the other math, so
it sort of pollutes all
the other operations.
It's a really good idea to
get familiar with testing
the results of mathematic operations,
to make sure that you didn't get a NaN.